src/linux.mdx, before:

import { Head } from 'mdx-go'

export const name = 'Developing on Linux'

<Head>
  <title>{name}</title>
</Head>

# Developing on Linux

With [Linux support being rolled out to many Chromebooks](https://www.theverge.com/circuitbreaker/2018/6/28/17514390/chromebooks-intel-apollo-lake-linux-support), developing on Linux has become a viable alternative to developing on a Mac. Even if you prefer developing on Windows 10, all the [Developing on Windows](/windows) guide does is help you prepare Windows 10 for [Windows Subsystem for Linux](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/wsl/about) before it sends you back to this guide. This guide is good for any [Debian](https://www.debian.org/) flavored distributions, including [Ubuntu](https://www.ubuntu.com/).

## Tooling

### Midnight Commander

[Midnight Commander (MC)](https://midnight-commander.org/) is handy for Linux users who are not yet expert Linux command-line users. Install MC with `apt`:

```bash
sudo apt install mc
```

The run `mc`. If you get error

```bash
Cannot create /home/<username>/.cache/mc directory
```

you need to change permissions of your `~/.cache` directory with `chown`:

```bash
sudo chown -R <username>:<username> ~/.cache/
```

### Git

#### Configuration

Run

```bash
sudo apt install git
```

to install [Git](https://git-scm.com/). Git requires a global `.gitconfig` file in your `~/` with some basic configurations. To get proper credits for your commits, configure your name and your email address:

```bash
git config --global user.name "<your_name>"
git config --global user.email "<your_email>"
```

Your `user.email` is normally your GitHub email. You can also use an alternate email, but then you need to add it as secondary email to your GitHub account, see https://github.com/settings/emails.

Install [GNU nano](https://www.nano-editor.org/)

```bash
sudo apt install nano
```

and add it as editor to edit commit messages:

```bash
git config --global core.editor "nano"
```

There is no need to install a Git client. Use [Visual Studio Code's built in Git support](https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/editor/versioncontrol) in conjunction with Git on the command-line for advanced commands. Add the following alias to get a polished tree view on the command-line:

```bash
git config --global alias.lg "log --graph --pretty=format:'%Cred%h%Creset -%C(yellow)%d%Creset %s %Cgreen(%cr) %C(bold blue)<%an>%Creset' --abbrev-commit --exclude=*gh-pages --all"
```

Command `git lg` (instead of Git's `git log`) then displays a nicely formatted tree view of all commits. 

Finally, you can check your configuration with

```bash
git config --list
```

#### Authentication

GitHub provides to options for authentication. You can authenticate with username and password or with a self generated SSH key. If you opt for username and password, you can cache your crednetials temporarily in memory, e.g.

```bash
git config --global credential.helper 'cache --timeout 3600'
```

caches your credentials for 1 hour. After the specified time in seconds has passed, you have to reauthenticate. With two-factor authentication active for your GitHub account (strongly recommended), you need to use a personal access token instead of your password you have to regenerate a new access token every time the credentials cache times out.

Therefore, we recommend you generate and configure an SSH key as described next and authenticate to GitHub completely transparently with that key. Generating an SSH key is more upfront hassle, but saves you hassle thereafter.

Generate your SSH key pair with

```bash
ssh-keygen -t rsa -b 4096 [-C <comment>]
```

Accept default settings and do not set a password. Add the following lines at the end of your `~/.bashrc`:

```bash
eval "$(ssh-agent -s)"
ssh-add ~/.ssh/id_rsa
```

This loads your private SSH key and makes it availalbe to Git for authentication to GitHub whenever you open a terminal. If you are on Windows Subsystem for Linux, you need to add these lines at the end of your `~/.bashrc` instead of above lines

```bash
# Start ssh agent
if ! pgrep -u "$USER" ssh-agent > /dev/null; then
    ssh-agent > ~/.ssh-agent-env
fi
# or load existing ssh-agent environment
if [[ "$SSH_AGENT_PID" == "" ]]; then
    eval "$(<~/.ssh-agent-env)" > /dev/null
fi

ssh-add ~/.ssh/id_rsa > /dev/null
```

This is to enable Git integration into VSCode on Windows with `wslgit.exe` as discussed [here](https://github.com/andy-5/wslgit/issues/16).

The last step is to add your public key to GitHub by copying the content of file `~/.ssh/id_rsa.pub` to https://github.com/settings/keys.

### Node Version Manager

[Node Version Manager (NVM)](https://github.com/creationix/nvm) is a tool to manage multiple versions of [Node](https://nodejs.org/en/). It allows you to add file `.nvmrc` file in each project. NVM reads this file to figure out which Node version to use. NVM is installed vi installation script, not via `apt`.
Go to https://github.com/creationix/nvm, copy and run the the latest version of the install script, which looks like this (probably with a later version number):

```bash
curl -o- https://raw.githubusercontent.com/creationix/nvm/v0.33.11/install.sh | bash
```

Restart your terminal and run `nvm --version` to verify that NVM is working. Run

```bash
nvm install stable
```

to install latest stable Node and to make it default. Runninge

```bash
node --version
```

should return the verison number of latest Node stable.

### Yarn

[Yarn](https://yarnpkg.com) is a more user-friendly alternative to Node's native package manager `npm`. Run

```bash
curl -sS https://dl.yarnpkg.com/debian/pubkey.gpg | sudo apt-key add -
echo "deb https://dl.yarnpkg.com/debian/ stable main" | sudo tee /etc/apt/sources.list.d/yarn.list
```

to add the Yarn package repository as source for `apt`. Then run

```bash
sudo apt-get install --no-install-recommends yarn
```

to install Yarn. The `--no-install-recommends` option tells the installer to omit installing Node, which you installed via NVM. Verify that Yarn is installed by running

```bash
yarn --version
```

## Editor

**If you are on Windows Subsystem for Linux, ignore this section.**

Install VSCode via `.deb` package as described in the [Visual Studio Code on Linux](https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/setup/linux) guide. This adds the VSCode to `apt` so that you receive future update via `apt`.

Commit message:

Update Linux doc to install latest stable Git

src/linux.mdx, after:

import { Head } from 'mdx-go'

export const name = 'Developing on Linux'

<Head>
  <title>{name}</title>
</Head>

# Developing on Linux

With [Linux support being rolled out to many Chromebooks](https://www.theverge.com/circuitbreaker/2018/6/28/17514390/chromebooks-intel-apollo-lake-linux-support), developing on Linux has become a viable alternative to developing on a Mac. Even if you prefer developing on Windows 10, all the [Developing on Windows](/windows) guide does is help you prepare Windows 10 for [Windows Subsystem for Linux](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/wsl/about) before it sends you back to this guide. This guide is good for any [Debian](https://www.debian.org/) flavored distributions, including [Ubuntu](https://www.ubuntu.com/).

## Tooling

### Midnight Commander

[Midnight Commander (MC)](https://midnight-commander.org/) is handy for Linux users who are not yet expert Linux command-line users. Install MC with `apt`:

```bash
sudo apt install mc
```

The run `mc`. If you get error

```bash
Cannot create /home/<username>/.cache/mc directory
```

you need to change permissions of your `~/.cache` directory with `chown`:

```bash
sudo chown -R <username>:<username> ~/.cache/
```

### Git

#### Installation

To install the latest stabel version of [Git](https://git-scm.com/), add the following repository:

```bash
sudo add-apt-repository ppa:git-core/ppa
sudo apt update
suod apt install git
```

#### Configuration

Git requires a global `.gitconfig` file in your `~/` with some basic configurations. To get proper credits for your commits, configure your name and your email address:

```bash
git config --global user.name "<your_name>"
git config --global user.email "<your_email>"
```

Your `user.email` is normally your GitHub email. You can also use an alternate email, but then you need to add it as secondary email to your GitHub account, see https://github.com/settings/emails.

Install [GNU nano](https://www.nano-editor.org/)

```bash
sudo apt install nano
```

and add it as editor to edit commit messages:

```bash
git config --global core.editor "nano"
```

There is no need to install a Git client. Use [Visual Studio Code's built in Git support](https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/editor/versioncontrol) in conjunction with Git on the command-line for advanced commands. Add the following alias to get a polished tree view on the command-line:

```bash
git config --global alias.lg "log --graph --pretty=format:'%Cred%h%Creset -%C(yellow)%d%Creset %s %Cgreen(%cr) %C(bold blue)<%an>%Creset' --abbrev-commit --exclude=*gh-pages --all"
```

Command `git lg` (instead of Git's `git log`) then displays a nicely formatted tree view of all commits. 

Finally, you can check your configuration with

```bash
git config --list
```

#### Authentication

GitHub provides to options for authentication. You can authenticate with username and password or with a self generated SSH key. If you opt for username and password, you can cache your crednetials temporarily in memory, e.g.

```bash
git config --global credential.helper 'cache --timeout 3600'
```

caches your credentials for 1 hour. After the specified time in seconds has passed, you have to reauthenticate. With two-factor authentication active for your GitHub account (strongly recommended), you need to use a personal access token instead of your password you have to regenerate a new access token every time the credentials cache times out.

Therefore, we recommend you generate and configure an SSH key as described next and authenticate to GitHub completely transparently with that key. Generating an SSH key is more upfront hassle, but saves you hassle thereafter.

Generate your SSH key pair with

```bash
ssh-keygen -t rsa -b 4096 [-C <comment>]
```

Accept default settings and do not set a password. Add the following lines at the end of your `~/.bashrc`:

```bash
eval "$(ssh-agent -s)"
ssh-add ~/.ssh/id_rsa
```

This loads your private SSH key and makes it availalbe to Git for authentication to GitHub whenever you open a terminal. If you are on Windows Subsystem for Linux, you need to add these lines at the end of your `~/.bashrc` instead of above lines

```bash
# Start ssh agent
if ! pgrep -u "$USER" ssh-agent > /dev/null; then
    ssh-agent > ~/.ssh-agent-env
fi
# or load existing ssh-agent environment
if [[ "$SSH_AGENT_PID" == "" ]]; then
    eval "$(<~/.ssh-agent-env)" > /dev/null
fi

ssh-add ~/.ssh/id_rsa > /dev/null
```

This is to enable Git integration into VSCode on Windows with `wslgit.exe` as discussed [here](https://github.com/andy-5/wslgit/issues/16).

The last step is to add your public key to GitHub by copying the content of file `~/.ssh/id_rsa.pub` to https://github.com/settings/keys.

### Node Version Manager

[Node Version Manager (NVM)](https://github.com/creationix/nvm) is a tool to manage multiple versions of [Node](https://nodejs.org/en/). It allows you to add file `.nvmrc` file in each project. NVM reads this file to figure out which Node version to use. NVM is installed vi installation script, not via `apt`.
Go to https://github.com/creationix/nvm, copy and run the the latest version of the install script, which looks like this (probably with a later version number):

```bash
curl -o- https://raw.githubusercontent.com/creationix/nvm/v0.33.11/install.sh | bash
```

Restart your terminal and run `nvm --version` to verify that NVM is working. Run

```bash
nvm install stable
```

to install latest stable Node and to make it default. Runninge

```bash
node --version
```

should return the verison number of latest Node stable.

### Yarn

[Yarn](https://yarnpkg.com) is a more user-friendly alternative to Node's native package manager `npm`. Run

```bash
curl -sS https://dl.yarnpkg.com/debian/pubkey.gpg | sudo apt-key add -
echo "deb https://dl.yarnpkg.com/debian/ stable main" | sudo tee /etc/apt/sources.list.d/yarn.list
```

to add the Yarn package repository as source for `apt`. Then run

```bash
sudo apt-get install --no-install-recommends yarn
```

to install Yarn. The `--no-install-recommends` option tells the installer to omit installing Node, which you installed via NVM. Verify that Yarn is installed by running

```bash
yarn --version
```

## Editor

**If you are on Windows Subsystem for Linux, ignore this section.**

Install VSCode via `.deb` package as described in the [Visual Studio Code on Linux](https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/setup/linux) guide. This adds the VSCode to `apt` so that you receive future update via `apt`.
