src/windows.mdx, before:

import { Head } from 'mdx-go'

export const name = 'Developing on Windows'

<Head>
  <title>{name}</title>
</Head>

# Developing on Windows

Developing on Windows 10 is fully supported with [Windows Subsystem for Linux (WSL)](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/wsl/install-win10).  As a prerequisite, you need to ensure that you have local admin privileges.

## Windows Subsystem for Linux

The [Windows Subsystem for Linux (WSL)](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/wsl/about) is Microsoft's attempt to relieve the pains that developers working with a non-Microsoft on Windows had for many nears. WSL basically gives a Linux development experience to Windows users.

Your starting point is the [WSL Windows 10 Installation Guide](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/wsl/install-win10) in which you find instructions how to check if your Windows 10 is compatible. If you have access to the Microsoft Store, you can install Ubuntu 18.04 straight from the store.

If you do not have access to the Microsoft Store, you need to follow [Manually download WSL distro packages](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/wsl/install-manual) to download Ubuntu 18.04. When the download is complete, you need to continue with [Windows Server Installation Guide](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/wsl/install-on-server). Finally, you need to setup WSL as explained in [Initializing a newly installed distro](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/wsl/initialize-distro).

If at any point you have to roll back your WSL installation, it is not enough to delete the folder that contains the installation. Check for installed WSL distributions by running

```powershell
wslconfig.exe /list
```

Pick your distirubtion, e.g. `Ubuntu-18.04`. Run

```powershell
wslconfig.exe /u Ubuntu-18.04
```

to unregister. Now you can delete the folder containing the WSL distribution and start over.

**At this point you have a Ubuntu 18.04 installation that you can access via the WSL terminal, but which is otherwise isolated from Windows 10.**

## Tooling

Now you can follow the steps in [Developing on Linux](/linux) to install all required tooling in your WSL Ubuntu 18.04.

## VSCode

All tooling runs in WSL, except your editor, which runs on Windows. Therefore, go ahead and install the windows version fo [VSCode](https://code.visualstudio.com/) on your Windows 10. Before you continue with [VSCode Configuration](/vscode), we need to integrate WSL with VSCode by adding the follwoing settings:

| Setting | Value | Comment |
|:--------|:------|:--------|
| `files.eol` | `\n` | Change line endings to LF for WSL compatibility. |
| `terminal.integrated.shell.windows` | `C:\\\\WINDOWS\\\\System32\\\\bash.exe` | Use WSL (Ubuntu bash) as terminal. |

You can now run Git in VSCode's terminal including authentication to GitHub as described in the [Developing on Linux](/linux) guide. However, at the moment there is no good way to make WSL's Git work with VSCode on Windows. This [GitHub issue](https://github.com/Microsoft/vscode/issues/9502) discusses different workarounds, all of which come with their own set of troubles.

To make VSCode's Git integration work on Windows, you need to install [Git for Windows](https://git-scm.com/download/win):

- In the **Select Components** screen select *Check daily for Git for Windows updates* only.
- In the **Choosing the default editor used by Git** screen select *Use Visual Studio Code as Git's default editor*.
- In the **Adjusting your PATH environment** screen select *Use Git from the Windows Command Prompt*.
- In the **Choosing HTTPS transport backend** screen select *Use the native Windows Secure Channel library*.
- In the **Configuring line ending conversions** screen select *Checkout as-is, commit Unix-style line endings*.
- In the **Configuring the terminal emulator to use with Git Bash** screen select *Use MinTTY*.
- In the **Configuring extra options** screen do not select *Enable Git Credential Manager*.
- Do not select any experimental options on the **Configuring experimental options** screen.

The only purpose of Git for Windows is to make VSCode's Git integration work. Never run Git commands in a Widows shell, only in a WSL terminal.

## Choosing the right working directory

Your Windows home directory is `%USERPROFILE%`, which normally corresponds to `C:\\Users\\<username>`. In Linux your home directory is `/home/<username>`. Your WSL home directory and Windows home directory are not the same. This is crucial when cloning a repository with Git. If you just clone into `/home/<username>`, VSCode cannot access your project. This why WSL mounts all Windows system drives. `%USERPROFILE%` corresponds to `/mnt/c/Users/<username>`. If you clone in this directory (or better a subdirectory), VSCode can access your project.

Commit message:

Use wslgit.exe to integrate Git with VSCode

src/windows.mdx, after:

import { Head } from 'mdx-go'

export const name = 'Developing on Windows'

<Head>
  <title>{name}</title>
</Head>

# Developing on Windows

Developing on Windows 10 is fully supported with [Windows Subsystem for Linux (WSL)](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/wsl/install-win10).  As a prerequisite, you need to ensure that you have local admin privileges.

## Windows Subsystem for Linux

The [Windows Subsystem for Linux (WSL)](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/wsl/about) is Microsoft's attempt to relieve the pains that developers working with a non-Microsoft on Windows had for many nears. WSL basically gives a Linux development experience to Windows users.

Your starting point is the [WSL Windows 10 Installation Guide](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/wsl/install-win10) in which you find instructions how to check if your Windows 10 is compatible. If you have access to the Microsoft Store, you can install Ubuntu 18.04 straight from the store.

If you do not have access to the Microsoft Store, you need to follow [Manually download WSL distro packages](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/wsl/install-manual) to download Ubuntu 18.04. When the download is complete, you need to continue with [Windows Server Installation Guide](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/wsl/install-on-server). Finally, you need to setup WSL as explained in [Initializing a newly installed distro](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/wsl/initialize-distro).

If at any point you have to roll back your WSL installation, it is not enough to delete the folder that contains the installation. Check for installed WSL distributions by running

```powershell
wslconfig.exe /list
```

Pick your distirubtion, e.g. `Ubuntu-18.04`. Run

```powershell
wslconfig.exe /u Ubuntu-18.04
```

to unregister. Now you can delete the folder containing the WSL distribution and start over.

**At this point you have a Ubuntu 18.04 installation that you can access via the WSL terminal, but which is otherwise isolated from Windows 10.**

## Tooling

Now you can follow the steps in [Developing on Linux](/linux) to install all required tooling in your WSL Ubuntu 18.04.

## VSCode

All tooling runs in WSL, except your editor, which runs on Windows. Therefore, go ahead and install the windows version for [VSCode](https://code.visualstudio.com/) on your Windows 10. 

Next download [`wslgit.exe`](https://github.com/andy-5/wslgit/releases) and place it in your dev folder. Before configuring [VSCode](/vscode), we need to integrate WSL with VSCode by adding the following Windows-specific settings:

| Setting | Value | Comment |
|:--------|:------|:--------|
| `files.eol` | `\n` | Change line endings to LF for WSL compatibility. |
| `git.path` | `C:\\\\path\\\\to\\\\wslgit.exe` | Path to [WSLGit](https://github.com/andy-5/wslgit). |
| `terminal.integrated.shell.windows` | `C:\\\\WINDOWS\\\\System32\\\\bash.exe` | Use Ubuntu bash via WSL as terminal. |

You can now run Git in VSCode's terminal including authentication to GitHub as described in the [Developing on Linux](/linux) guide.

## Choosing the right working directory

Your Windows home directory is `%USERPROFILE%`, which normally corresponds to `C:\\Users\\<username>`. In Linux your home directory is `/home/<username>`. Your WSL home directory and Windows home directory are not the same. This is crucial when cloning a repository with Git. If you just clone into `/home/<username>`, VSCode cannot access your project. This why WSL mounts all Windows system drives. `%USERPROFILE%` corresponds to `/mnt/c/Users/<username>`. If you clone in this directory (or better a subdirectory), VSCode can access your project.
